do you want three simple ways to
generate ideal clients inbound from
linkedin
[Music]
hey i'm sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com and host the top 100
marketing podcast business growth show
and if you haven't done so yet check out
my weekly email where i'm sharing
actionable website and marketing tips
useful podcasts free goodies resources
and much more every monday so you can
start your week off with a bang why not
give it a shot over at
businessgrowth.email all right so i'm
going to be sharing three very simple
ways that you can attract idle clients
to come straight to you through linkedin
so without further ado let's jump
straight on in
okay the first step to attracting idle
clients inbound through linkedin
is your profile so you want to think is
your profile page on linkedin as
basically like a landing page for a
website
and a bit like a lead magnet so this
profile page has to attract idle clients
has to clearly show what you do how you
help and then perhaps build some trust
with some testimonials and reviews that
we'll see in a minute and then convert
so it's got to convert visitors from
just browsing to taking the action and
dropping you a message
or whatever that next step is that you
want them to take whether that's going
to your website filling out a form
dropping an email give me a call you
need to make it as clear as possible
what you do how you help build some
trust and then get them to convert and
take that next step with you so first
thing you want to look at is the from
the top downwards so if i look at my
profile that i've got open now
we want to look at the top profile
banner image to begin with takes up a
lot of real estate on the desktop and
the mobile view
so if we look at mine for example i've
got eye striking image we use red and
white and a top part top left i've got
webchoiceuk.com address and then as my
main headline
is our value prop of how we help
businesses so it's in our case custom
websites and seo strategies to generate
leads and sales that's the value prop
and then a call to action is dm direct
messaged me to learn more so yours could
be similar it could talk about the main
juiciest problem that people come to you
with to solve it could talk about how
you improve people's lives how you make
their businesses better whatever that
focal point is that you help businesses
with leverage that and then have a call
to action dm me to learn more or
whatever you want them to do whether
that's visit your website and so on so
make sure you've got that profile banner
sorted with that clear value prop and
call to action next up we've got the
profile image so in my case i just use a
yellow background with my mugshot my
profile pic
and then we've also so make sure you've
got a nice professional headshot which
nowadays you can do on your phone or get
someone to take for you blurred
background can be nice as well if you
don't want to replace the background
like i've done with yellow just so it
helps people kind of stop in the feed if
they're scrolling past the yellow stands
out quite a bit
and then within that if you click on the
profile picture you've also got a
profile video
so in my case i just recorded one i
believe i recorded it with zoom and
again the profile video is a great piece
of real estate because it's a chance to
share what you do how you help and then
again leverage a call to action so in my
case i just explain what we do build
websites and seo i explain that i've got
a podcast business growth show and then
i direct people to either
consume my content i explain i share
daily tips on websites and seo so you
can share what what you post about what
content you create and then drive them
with a call to action to visit our
website
or to connect with me
cool so that's the top section and then
a very very crucial part underneath your
name you've got your headline your
tagline
so this is what's going to appear in the
feed every time you comment like engage
create a post yourself post some con
content whatever you do in the feed
people are going to see three things
they're going to see your profile
picture your name and then your strap
line your headline that's underneath it
so i recommend in your headline actually
doing one of three things
either you can put your position
and then what you do
as in your job role or what i like to do
is actually put in our value proposition
so in our case my headline on linkedin
is we build websites and seo strategies
that generate leads and sales and i put
our website address and i direct people
actually say dm for a consultation and
then use some keywords web design web
development seo and then just explain on
the host of the podcast so
you can go a couple ways you can
a lot of people go with i help with
statement i i help this persona maybe i
help busy execs
lose 30 pounds
in 60 days if you're a fit loss trainer
or in our case maybe i help business
owners or marketing
directors improve their
lead generation or improve their google
rankings or improve their website
inbound lead gen through custom websites
and seo strategies so you can leverage
that kind of thing a help proposition or
you can leverage the problem you fix ie
are you frustrated let's say you're a
crm provider you frustrated just reps of
spending hours every week updating admin
and crm we fix that so think about the
value prop that you can put that's going
to stop people scrolling in the feed and
linkedin when they see your headline and
then leverage that and again you can put
a call to action like dm me for a
consultation within that headline after
the value prop so after you've sorted
out your headline
underneath that you've got options to
add hashtags
so you can actually basically put
hashtags for the things that you are
going to post content about so i'm of
course putting seo marketing web design
similar again you can pick the relevant
hashtags to industry
and then on this edit button in the top
right
you can actually this is where you can
edit your headline your position the
industry you're in locations and so on
there's a fairly new feature where we
can actually put a link
so in our case i'll put a link to my
website with people to option given the
options for people to book a call with
us
so you can do similar it's a nice new
tool
and then you can talk about the services
you provide
turn on creator mode which is a new
feature which is where you can enable
people to see a content that follows
certain hashtags
now
a nice section for your profile is the
featured section
so scrolling down a bit this is where
you can actually add images or direct
links to
wherever you want to send people on
desktop it shows three and on mobile i
believe it shows just one and then you
can scroll across so in our case i
usually recommend putting your website
as the main one or perhaps you've got a
lead magnet maybe you want to send
people to a webinar download an ebook or
a guide or something similar so you can
put that there in my case the first one
is book a website or seo cool that sends
them to our website my second one is to
download my no bs website lead gen guide
the third one is to send them to the
podcast so three main things think about
the three main things you want to send
people to and after that i've just got
some old posts
and then
scrolling down the deck again people can
see your activity
and then the main
next main thing you want to think about
is your about section
so many people especially in sales or
business make the mistake of just
talking about their great achievements
how many good things they've done which
is okay if you're looking for a job and
you want recruiters to to come to your
page but if you want to actually
generate business and get people to dm
you and generate leads you want to gear
this up as a landing page
so my recommended format is to actually
start with the first couple lines as a
hook
so talking about the common problems
people come to you with so in our case
you're frustrated your website isn't
generating a steady flow of qualified
sales leads or you're tired of seeing
competitors ahead of you on google think
about the two two or three juiciest
problems that people come to you with to
fix so it's gonna hook people in if
they're
facing these problems too and then i
talk about how we fix them so i talk
about some of the main services we
provide as a next step
and if you're still not convinced i
leverage some social proof so i say look
you can see our work here on our website
check out some client reviews here
and then finally i give people the
option to download an ebook so my
website lead gen guide website
legionbook.com
and then lastly i call the action so i
give a call to action if you want to
discuss a project message me here give
me a call here or drop me an email
so starting with from the top to bottom
of the about section leveraging the main
problems people come to you with to fix
how you help them fix them leverage some
social proof of testimonials or reviews
maybe give people a free piece of
content whether that's an ebook or
similar and then call to action
how can people get a hold of you your
number email if you want them to message
them give make it nice and easy if
people take that next step
next up is the experience so you can
just put a few recent jobs that you've
had your latest role here
wouldn't worry too much as long as
you've got a few roles and again you can
give people the option to contact you
education skills not not too big and
then recommendations this is a good part
to build trust so ask recent clients
that you've done a good job for to leave
your recommendation and again you can
share the problem you came to with how
you help them fix it and why they
recommend just to flesh out your profile
and that is
my main recommendations for your profile
section to really get gear it up as a
quality landing page build trust show
how you help and convert your traffic
the visitors that come to your page
and the second step which is often
neglected actually on linkedin which is
super important especially when you're
first getting on the platform when you
want to build up your connections
and the content that you post might not
yet get much reach because you haven't
got many connections people don't know
about you so essentially this is almost
stealing the reach of other creators so
essentially what you want to do is
engage in the feed so that's a mix of
liking posts engaging on posts adding a
meaningful comment not just seeing a
post and adding great posts because that
adds nothing but actually ideally
looking for people that are posting
perhaps similar content for you and to
what you post about it doesn't have to
be all the time but that can be a great
asset and then you're essentially
stealing their network so when you like
when you comment on their post
all of that person's post you just
engage with all of their connections are
going to see it so you're reaching an
entirely new audience
but the best part is if you share
something useful
then that audience might see you as
someone that's worth connecting with
for example in our case if i see someone
that's posting about marketing and
perhaps they're talking about websites
or seo and i say great post have you
considered xyz or have you thought about
this or this is my two cents on this
so commenting that you say you like the
post or that this was interesting adding
your point of view and adding some extra
insights or thoughts or opinions or
added extras bit of value add to the
post and then their network might see it
you might get some new connections you
might even get some inquiries because
they then go to your profile and they
need your help
so
yeah essentially liking posts commenting
on them where you see fit but one of the
best practices to actually grow your
network fast start attracting idle
clients is to actually
two ways to do it so you can do hashtags
so in my case i might just go to the
search tool in the top bar of linkedin
and i might go hashtag seo so maybe i
see people that are posting about seo i
click
search on hashtag seo i go to
i filter it to posts
and then once that loads up
i can filter this
search again to
date posted past 24 hours show results
and i can just engage with people that
have posted about seo recently if i wish
to
so i can
leverage that or what i like to do is i
know there's a few so if you know
there's a few big names in your industry
and you know that they're getting good
reach so for example jason won't mind me
doing this because he's been on our
podcast before
so for example you go on to content
creators that you know have got a decent
reach or they know they've got a good
network that you can leverage
you can click onto their profile you can
click
the bell so get notified by their posts
which is a great feature and basically
means when you click that bell every
time they post you'll get a notification
on linkedin and then you can engage in
their content or an alternative is to
actually open a spreadsheet like an
excel doc or a google doc make a list of
people perhaps in your industry perhaps
people have just got a good network and
perhaps people that have got a smaller
network and then start engaging in their
content each day it will help get you
noticed by their network especially if
they've got a big following so for
example jace has got 44k plus followers
which
can be seen can expose you when you post
on their stuff so for example
jason posted yesterday
i liked it he was talking about how you
can position yourself as the only choice
for your customers
i added a comment saying yep this looks
good i'd add here's my two cents
jason basically said
to position yourself as the only choice
for idle clients you should solve their
pay points make them laugh inspire them
to change i'm basically saying yep
sounds good i'd also say your content
that you post out should answer common
questions handle common objections
then make sure you distribute the
content on channels that your customers
use so i like this post engaged it with
a comment it got five likes
and i also got a connection request from
a marketer and i think as a marketing
director just off that comment alone
so what we're saying is
engaging in the feed
put a useful
comment add a like or some kind of
engagement on things that are relevant
think about people that are perhaps in
the same industry of you that you can
leverage their network think about
people who've got big followings that
you can comment on each day and i
recommend if you can kind of doing
anywhere between five to ten of these
meaningful engagements and comments is
going to get you noticed in the feed you
can get you some more connection
requests get more people to view your
profile over time and get you more
potential needs
and the third strategy is actually
creating and publishing content in the
linkedin feed itself
so linkedin allows you to post either
videos photos text posts you can post
slides you can celebrate an occasion or
create polls
now it used to be that text posts were
by far got the best reach in terms of
views and in terms of engagement it's
slightly changed you can now get really
good impressions in the feed through
video posts and images are both good as
well polls had a stage where they were
really smashing the engagement and the
views and impressions recently but i
think it's kind of leveled out with
video text
and image based posts
right so a few things to consider
from my experience anyway is
i tend to post up to three times a day
and i tend to space them out so i
usually give like three or four hours or
so
space in between each post that i create
now if you're just getting started on a
platform posting like once every weekday
is probably a smart idea so whilst
you're doing the other things we talked
about once you've sorted your landing
page you're engaging with other people
in the feed to build up your network
gain that visibility to your page and
build up those connections perhaps
you're doing some outbound outreach as
well so actively using the search
facility maybe on normal linkedin or
sales navigator to reach new contacts
and connections so they'll also see your
content
so we want to think about spreading your
posts so if you are going to do more
than one post a day leaving a few hours
perhaps between each post because it can
affect your engagement from my
experience anyway if you post
say one post then 10 minutes later do
another it seems to affect your reach in
terms of how many people will actually
see it in the feed so for actual ideas
for posts and creating content
if i quickly jump over to my profile
go to recent activity
go to posts i can give you a few ideas
so i often live stream the podcast when
we have guests on
and typically the content that i create
i want to gear it or you want to gear it
towards attracting ideal clients so you
want to talk about not just anything and
everything but drill down hone in on
your industry
so focus on
what you want to be selling so in my
case websites and seo and basically
educating helping people or entertaining
people around that subject
so you're posting daily tips insights
ideas educational pieces maybe funny
pieces
so eventually you're positioning
yourself as a go-to person in your
industry so whenever someone sees your
name in the feed they know that there's
a post coming on x or y because that's
what you post about so eventually you
want to position yourself as when
someone needs your help or when someone
knows a referral or a contact that needs
your help you're
first you're top of mind they're going
to recommend you because they've seen
your content they've built so much trust
in your senior content daily
that they know that you're the go-to
person that's the main objective to
generate those all-important qualified
leads inbound people giving you a
message going to your website wherever
that next step is
so there's a few ways that i recommend
creating posts so for example my one
yesterday was quite more of a funny one
10 reasons not to do seo they're all
quite jovial but seo won't make you rich
overnight um you need to create content
consistently it's going to increase your
website traffic that you might find
scary sales might fall off their chair
if they get an inbound lead to quite a
jovial post
sometimes i post videos like how to
avoid this mistake on your website
others i post real conversations i've
had with people um
sometimes i just focus in on specific
tips so breaking down seo for example
into keyword research so
one great way to come up with content
ideas is to bring up a document maybe
that's a google doc or similar and list
out
all the common questions that you get
from prospects regularly
um for example how to do x best way to
do y 10 reasons to do x
make all these questions into a list
then put little post ideas in between
each one in terms of post formatting
from my experience
tend to do short snappy lines
so not having huge paragraphs breaking
each text each line of text into a clear
line sentence is best because a lot of
people open linkedin on their phone so
it just makes it easy to read on smaller
screens and then yeah coming up with
content ideas think of common questions
you get think of common frustrations
common objections you get and handle
those objections in your text copy and
your images in your videos think of
funny stories around your industry that
you can share maybe that was some
conversations with people your
colleagues your teammates talk about
upcoming events if you run a podcast as
well perhaps you can stream that on here
perhaps you can chop it up into video
snapshots perhaps you did a presentation
recently you can share that as a
slideshow maybe you've got funny videos
that you can share
maybe you've done a recent infographic
that explains a process so basically you
want to think of this
as i say making yourself positioned as
the go-to person in your sector you're
sharing useful tips educational pieces
answering questions being informative
being helpful daily you're not posting
my company just won this award you might
post it every now and then you're not
doing a sales pitch you're not saying
look come to me for this i've got an
offer come 50 off you're not directly
posting features and benefits you're
helping you're educating you're saying
that this is a useful tip on this this
is breaking down this you're basically
saying the same thing in a hundred ways
each day so people consistently see in
the feed as you build up connections you
build up that trust and then people go
to your profile page and eventually
reach out to you when you've built
enough trust or they're at the right
timing for needing your help or your
services through trusting your content
and then a bonus tip is to actually
click on who's viewed your profile so as
you build up connections as you post
more content as you engage in the feed
as you start more conversations more and
more people will view your profile and
if you jump on if you click onto your
own profile if you then click on the
analytics section
your profile views click that you can
literally see
who has viewed your profile
so in my case it looks like a lot of
people in similar industries have viewed
the profile but every now and then
you'll see people that have
engaged in your profile checked out that
fit your idle client profile so perhaps
you're targeting marketing directors
perhaps you're targeting ceos perhaps
you're targeting ccos
whatever it may be if you see someone
that fits your idle client profile it
could be a
good prospect to have a conversation
with perhaps you connect with them
perhaps you send them a personalized
invitation request perhaps you start
engaging their comment content and
perhaps you'd even drop them a message
say look out of all the people on this
platform what prompted you to check out
my
profile which is something i often do
and then it starts a conversation might
lead to a meeting eventually so that is
one way and the other idea is that you
can actually see if i quickly jump back
to my profile another tip
if i look at my own content
once you've done a post and once you're
building up connections you've been
posting for a while you can look at all
the people that have liked or commented
or engaged in your pr and your content
so for example i've clicked on a recent
post of mine i've clicked on who's
engaged with it you can scroll through
the people that have liked and commented
and if anyone fits the profile that
could be a potential client you could
strike up a conversation with them you
could say hey
cheers for engaging in my content
curious what are you doing to handle x
what are you doing to handle why and
relate it back to the content so mine
was about seo so i could say hey hey
steve thanks for engaging in my post on
seo curious what are you doing to rank
well on google now or curious what
you're doing to generate a steady flow
of inbound leads for your website kicks
off the convo it's quite warm already
because they like your content and it's
a good starting point to get those sales
conversations get those leads flowing
and there you have it i hope these tips
on how to attract idle clients and
generate inbound leads through linkedin
have been of use as always if you're on
the audio podcast a quick rating or
review really really helps us so i'll be
very thankful if you could leave us that
rating or if you're on youtube a quick
subscribe as much appreciate it with
that said i shall catch you on the next
episode
cheers